In our courses component dot HTML,
we are gonna come in and
we are gonna start to build this out.
And so
what I wanna do here is attach a form and
we're going to put this around because.
So the one thing is with a material
cart is you have your content and
then you have your actions.
And we're going to wrap this
entire thing inside of a form.
So the form body is going to
go inside of the content and
then the actions themselves are going to
go inside the actions section of the card.
And from here let's go ahead and
we're going to go form equals mg form
And, Let's go and
just so we can see some of this in action
We'll get on pre And
we'll just go form, non value, JSON and
I'm gonna duplicate this and
we'll go valid.
And I'm not quite for sure what's gonna
happen because there's nothing in here,
but it's a good No direct
is found with export as in G form,
what do you think that could be?
Let me check.
It's like I'm like a prophet
like I'm a minor prophet like,
I'm over you're saying everybody
needs to be real careful.
Well, there you have it.
We just organize imports just because
I'm obsessive compulsive, all right.
Better, so make sure you import your
forms module and we have a form,
we don't have any input fields,
it's not doing much.
So let's go back into our code here and
let's start to build the cell.
So, I'm gonna type one of these out and
then I might copy paste the rest
of them or some of them,
just because typing is
not that interesting.
I'm gonna give this a class of full width,
and we're going to add an input.
And from here, we're going to add
in mat input here, we're going to
give this a placeholder of title.
And, I'm
going to do something that
is going to blow up, but
let's do it anyways current course title,
So there's a couple things
that is problematic
about what I've done up to this point, but
YOLO let's see what's going on here.
So current course that's super
easy, so let me go back here
Let's try this again.
So, This is what happened last time,
so you can do a couple things
here that I think are okay.
The first one is, I'm pretty sure I can
put a safe navigation operator in here.
And the expressions are not allowed, okay.
So one of the things that I
will say about angular 13
versus its predecessors is
that it is a lot more strict.
So, what I'm gonna do here is,
they're forcing
my hand to solve a problem
that I was going to solve
a little bit later, but
I'll do it now, that,
When I have a form that I'm
using to either create or
update something because you
absolutely can use the same form.
That when I have something
selected something,
let's say a chorus,
then I bind that form to the chorus.
But if it's empty,
what I want is to essentially
bind it to an empty course
object that gets populated.
So that when I save it,
it just passes it down
the road if you will.
So, from here what I am going to do,
I feel like this is a really good time
to generate an interface for this.
So, Fortunately
this is from previously when I did this,
so NGG interface common models course.
And so anytime this is generally one of
the first things I do when I'm building
something out is I will actually
build out the interfaces first.
And then everything else is
able to be kind of inferred or
generated off of that, so
let's just double check.
Looks good, and so
just let it be known for
the record that in this particular module,
I generated an interface so
that we could see it.
So now, we'll go to common here and
we just look at this real quick,
id, title,
description, percent, complete.
So, Id should actually always
be a string,
the reason being is because numbers.
You can only have so many variations
of them, like really zero through nine.
Whereas with alphanumeric strings,
you can have a ton,
I do think it's funny that I put that
as a in quotes is a string, all right.
So like I was doing an object literal for
a second okay.
We'll go with description is a string
percent complete is a number and
our favorite is going to be a Boolean,
all right, there we go.
I'm going to save this,
now if we go back into our courses.
What I'm going to do, is I'm going
to outside of the class itself.
I'm going to go empty course, and
I'm going to type this as
a course you can see now that
I've imported the interface and
id is gonna be no
I'll address this in just a second,
this is why.
So now what we should see is that
it's declared as never read,
as well as we're missing
a bunch of properties.
So title is just gonna be
an empty string description.
Also an empty string,
percent complete is gonna be zero and
favorite is going to be false, all right.
So, now, what I can do is I can set
selected course to empty course.
And so now when I come back into
this what you'll see here is
that everything is hopefully kosher,
let me check.
Alright, so
mostly kosher this is the other piece.
So if entry model is used within a form
tag either the name attribute must be
set or the form control must be defined as
stand alone, that's not what we wanna do.
Well, what we want to
do is we need a way to
attach ng model to the top
level form control.
And so
this is what this is complaining about.
And so if we go back in here
this is also going to save you
a bunch of pain,
that if you're attaching mg model to
an input that you also need
to add a name attribute.
Add to it like so, and
I think this should work.
And, lo and behold, what do you know?
That absolutely nothing is
happening which is good,
so now when I select this you can see
here that we populated the title.
And this became or
the value of the foreign
control object became instantly populated,
now if I cancel it I would
imagine that here we go.
So when I tried to set it
to no that was not good, so
this is where things get just
a few extra steps to do this.
So, what I'm going to do here is I'm
going to create one more method.
And I'm going to I'll just do this down
here, I'm gonna call this just reset
Select the course Or rather I can do
Let's try this I'm going to essentially
just create a copy of the empty course,
there we go.
And so
all I'm doing is I'm taking this object,
I'm just creating a new copy of it.
And I'm setting that is the select course,
JavaScript, as you know, is,
unless it's a primitive value,
it's passed by reference.
Which can create some interesting things,
especially when you're
binding to the same property.
If you ever wanna talk about
the evils of shared mutable state,
this is a really easy
way to demonstrate that.
So what I'm doing instead is
making this immutable by or
rather it is still mutable.
But essentially breaking that
something shared and mutable,
what you need to do is either make
it non mutable or not shared.
So in this case,
I'm calling this lead course but
I'm passing in a copy of empty course.
And before I forget,
what I need to do now is
when I call this,
I just need to call reset.
So we'll go here, back to this,
select this and if I click cancel,
you can see now I was able to reset it,
and hopefully everything is AOK.
And so let me add in one more property
here and then let me do one more property.
And then we will go on to kind
of the next portion of this and
I'm going to issue a challenge and
we will go from there.
So, in this case description and
the differences this one is not required.
So, if we go here and
notice that when I started
to type this in,
it filled this in, and but
it immediately went to being
valid because this is required.
And now that itself you can see that if I
select this what we should
see somewhere in here is yes.
So you can see here, right down here,
you have this ng invalid as well
as it's saying that it's dirty,
and it's been touched.
In summary, nice,
what are we talking about?
All right, so just refresh this and
we'll select, there we go, valid.
And, as I type this in and
you can see here that it's also
filling it out here so, there we go.
Now, we're gonna talk
about this when we get
into component driven architecture, but
remember what I said about
shared mutable state.
So shared state is okay,
mutable state is okay,
but shared mutable state is the devil's
playground, and let me show you why.
So you'll see here,
I've selected Angular 13 fundamentals.
And what do you think happens when
I go in and I update this title.
Did you notice that,
I am mutating this title and
it's updating in three
other places on the page?
So this is not good, the reason being,
is what if I started typing this
in I'm like, you know what?
I don't really wanna do this,
well I have no way to undo this because
I've already mutated the data structure.
And so the question is how do
I solve this, what do I do?